.. title:: Home

.. raw:: html

    <div class="banner">
        <h1>GMT/Python</h1>
        <h2>
            A modern Python interface for the
            <a href="http://gmt.soest.hawaii.edu/">Generic Mapping Tools</a>
        </h2>
    </div>


.. attention::

    **This package is in early stages development**.
    We welcome any feedback and ideas!
    Let us know by submitting
    `issues on Github <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python/issues>`__
    or send us a message on our
    `Gitter chatroom <https://gitter.im/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python>`__.


Getting started
---------------

1. Try an online demo at `try.gmtpython.xyz <http://try.gmtpython.xyz>`__
2. :ref:`Install <install>` (tested and working on Linux and macOS)
3. Follow the :ref:`tutorials`.
4. Take a look at the :ref:`api` for a list of modules that are already
   available.

.. note::

    **Found a typo?**
    You can fix it by clicking on "Improve this page" at the top of every page.
    Some pages are autogenerated and can't be edited so you'll be prompted to
    report an issue instead.
    We really appreciate the help!


Project goals
-------------

* Build a modern Pythonic API that appeals to Python programmers who want to
  use GMT.
* Implement readable and explicit aliases for the GMT command-line arguments
  (``region`` instead of ``R``, ``projection`` instead of ``J``, etc).
* Use the new `GMT modern mode
  <http://gmt.soest.hawaii.edu/projects/gmt/wiki/Modernization>`__ for
  simplified execution and figure generation.
* Interface with the GMT C API directly using :py:mod:`ctypes` (no system calls).
* Integration with the `Jupyter notebook <http://jupyter.org/>`__ to display
  plots and maps inline.
* Input and output using Python native containers: :class:`numpy.ndarray` or
  :class:`pandas.DataFrame` for data tables and `xarray <http://xarray.pydata.org>`__
  ``Dataset`` for netCDF grids.


Contacting Us
-------------

* Most discussion happens `on Github <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python>`__.
  Feel free to `open an issue
  <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python/issues/new>`__ or comment
  on any open issue or pull request.
* We have `chat room on Gitter <https://gitter.im/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python>`__
  where you can ask questions and leave comments.
* Please note that this project is released with a `Contributor Code of Conduct
  <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md>`__.
  By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.


Contributing
------------

Please read our
`Contributing Guide <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/gmt-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`__
to see how you can help and give feedback.


Related projects
----------------

* `GMT.jl <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/GMT.jl>`__ -- A Julia wrapper
  for GMT.
* `gmtmex <https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/GMT.jl>`__ -- A Matlab/Octave
  wrapper for GMT.

Other Python wrappers for GMT:

* `gmtpy <https://github.com/emolch/gmtpy>`__ by `Sebastian Heimann <https://github.com/emolch>`__
* `pygmt <https://github.com/ian-r-rose/pygmt>`__ by `Ian Rose <https://github.com/ian-r-rose>`__
* `PyGMT <https://github.com/glimmer-cism/PyGMT>`__  by `Magnus Hagdorn <https://github.com/mhagdorn>`__


.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :hidden:
    :caption: Getting Started

    install.rst
    tutorials/first-steps.ipynb

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :hidden:
    :caption: User Guide

    tutorials/plot-data-points.ipynb
    api/index.rst
    design.rst
